1)  What is the difference between list and tuples in python?
  Ans :     List 					Tuples
	List are mutable			Tuples are immutable
	List are variable size 		Tuples are fixed size
	
2)  what is the key features of python?
   Ans: 1- Easy to code
   	2- GUI programming support
   	3- Open and free source
   	4- Object oriented language
   	5- High level language
   	6- Extensible features
   	7- integrated language
   	8- interpreted language
   	9- Dynamically Typed language
   	
3)  What type of language is python ? programming or scripting ?
   Ans : Python is scripting, general-purpose, high-level, and interpreted programming language.
  
 4)  Python an interpreted language . Explain.
   Ans : Python is an Interpreted Language because Python code is executed line by line at a time. like other languages C, C++, Java, etc. there is no need to compile python code this makes it easier  	to debug our code. The source code of python is converted into an immediate form called bytecode.
 
 5)  what is pep 8?
   Ans : PEP-8 is a document that provides guidelines and best practices on how to write Python code.
   	 The primary focus of PEP 8 is to improve the readability and consistency of Python code.
   	 PEP stands for Python Enhancement Proposal.
   	 
 6)  How is memory managed in python ?
   Ans : Memory management is the functionality of an operating system which handles or manages primary memory and moves processes back and forth between main memory and disk during execution. Memory management keeps track of each and every memory location, regardless of either it is allocated to some process or it is free.
   
 7)  what is namespace in python ?
    Ans : A namespace is a system that has a unique name for each and every object in Python. An object might be a variable or a method.
    
8)  what is PYTHONPATH ?
    Ans : PYTHONPATH is an environment variable which the user can set to add additional directories that the user wants Python to add to the sys. path directory list. ... So, when you import modules in your Python scripts, PYTHONPATH is also checked to see which directories might contain the imported module.
    
9)  what are python modules ? name some commonly used buuilt-innmodules in python?
   Ans : OS Module.
    	 Sys Module.
    	 Math Module.
    	 Statistics Module.
    	 Collections Module.
    	 Random Module.
    	 
10)  what are global and local variables in python ?
   Ans : Local variable 					Global variable
       1-Local variable declare inside the function           1- Global variable declare outside the function
       2-Local variables are created when the function        2-Global variable is created as execution starts and is lost when the program ends
       has started execution and is lost when the function
       terminates, on the other hand
       
11)  is python  case sensitive ?
  Ans : yes , python is case sensitive.
  
12)  What is type conversation in python ?
  Ans : Python defines type conversion functions to directly convert one data type to another which is useful in day to day and competitive programming
  
13)  How to install python on windows and set path variable?
   Ans :      PATH variable
    Right-clicking This PC and going to Properties.
    Clicking on the Advanced system settings in the menu on the left.
    Clicking on the Environment Variables button o​n the bottom right.
    In the System variables section, selecting the Path variable and clicking on Edit. ...
    Clicking on New and entering Python's install directory.
    
14 ) is indentation required in python ?
   Ans : To indicate a block of code in Python, you must indent each line of the block by the same amount. ... In most other programming languages, indentation is used only to help make the code look pretty. But in Python, it is required for indicating what block of code a statement belongs to.
   
15)  what is different between python arrays and list ?
  Ans : 			List										Array
	Can consist of elements belonging to different data types		Only consists of elements belonging to the same data type
	No need to explicitly import a module for declaration		Need to explicitly import a module for declaration
	Cannot directly handle arithmetic operations				Can directly handle arithmetic operations
	Can be nested to contain different type of elements			Must contain either all nested elements of same size
	Preferred for shorter sequence of data items				Preferred for longer sequence of data items
	Greater flexibility allows easy modification				Less flexibility since addition, deletion has to be done element wise
 	(addition, deletion) of data						
	The entire list can be printed without any explicit looping		A loop has to be formed to print or access the components of array
	Consume larger memory for easy addition of elements			Comparatively more compact in memory size
 
16)  what are functions in python?
   Ans : Function is a block of code which only runs when it is called.
  	 You can pass data, known as parameters, into a function.
  	 A function can return data as a result.
   	
17)  what is __init__?
  Ans : "__init__" is a reseved method in python classes. It is called as a constructor in object oriented terminology. This method is called when an object is created from a class and it allows the 		class to initialize the attributes of the class.
  
18)  what is lambda function ?
  Ans : A lambda function is a small anonymous function.
	A lambda function can take any number of arguments, but can only have one expression.
	
19)  what is self in python ?
  Ans : self represents the instance of the class. By using the “self” keyword we can access the attributes and methods of the class in python
  
20)  How does break , continue and pass work ?
  Ans : The break keyword is used to break out a for loop, or a while loop
        The continue statement is used to stop the current iteration of the loop, and continue with the next.
        The pass statement is used as a placeholder for future code. When the pass statement is executed, nothing happens, but you avoid getting an error when empty code is not allowed. 
        
21)   what does [::-1} do ?
   Ans :  It reverse a string.
   
22)   how can you randomize the items of a list in place in python ?
   Ans : To randomly shuffle elements of lists ( list ), in Python, use the random module. random provides shuffle() that shuffles the original list in place, and sample() that returns a new list 	     that is randomly shuffled. sample() can also be used for strings and tuples.
   
23) what are python iterators ?
   Ans : An iterator is an object that contains a countable number of values.
	 An iterator is an object that can be iterated upon, meaning that you can traverse through all the values.
	 Technically, in Python, an iterator is an object which implements the iterator protocol, which consist of the methods __iter__() and __next__().
	 
24)  How can you generate random numbers in python ?
   Ans : Random integer values can be generated with the randint() function. This function takes two arguments: the start and the end of the range for the generated integer values. Random integers 	  	 are generated within and including the start and end of range values, specifically in the interval [start, end].
   
25)  What is the difference between range and xrange ?
   Ans : They both provide a way to generate a list of integers for you to use, however you please. The only difference is that range returns a Python list object and xrange returns an xrange 	 object. ... It means that xrange doesn't actually generate a static list at run-time like range does
   
26) How to you write comments in python ?
   Ans :  Comments in Python begin with a hash mark ( # ) and whitespace character and continue to the end of the line. Because comments do not execute, when you run a program you will not see any 		   indication of the comment there. Comments are in the source code for humans to read, not for computers to execute
   
27) what is pickling and unpickling ?
   Ans :  The process to converts any kind of python objects (list, dict, etc.) into byte streams (0s and 1s) is called pickling or serialization or flattening or marshalling. 
   	   We can converts the byte stream (generated through pickling) back into python objects by a process called as unpickling
          
28)  what are the generators in python ?
   Ans :  Python generators are a simple way of creating iterators. All the work we mentioned above are automatically handled by generators in Python. Simply speaking, a generator is a function that 		  returns an object (iterator) which we can iterate over (one value at a time).
   
29)  How will you cappitalize the first letter of string ?
  Ans : In Python, the capitalize() method returns a copy of the original string and converts the first character of the string to a capital (uppercase) letter while making all other characters in 		the string lowercase letters.
  
30)  How will you convert the string to all lowercase ?
  Ans : LowerCase() method converts a string to lower case letters.
  
31)  How to command multiple lines in python ?
  Ans : Unlike other programming languages Python doesn't support multi-line comment blocks out of the box.
    	The recommended way to comment out multiple lines of code in Python is to use consecutive # single-line comments.
    	
32)  What are dostring in python ?
  Ans :  Python docstrings are strings used right after the definition of a function, method, class, or module (like in Example 1). They are used to document our code. We can access these docstrings 		 using the __doc__ attribute.
  
33)  What is the purpose of is , not , in operators ?
  Ans :  is   - is and is not are the identity operators in Python. They are used to check if two values (or variables) are located on the same part of the memory.
  	 not  - An operation on logical values that changes true to false, and false to true.
  	 in   - The 'in' operator is used to check if a value exists in a sequence or not.
  	 
34)  what is the usage of help() and dir() function in python ?
  Ans : Help() and dir(), are the two functions that are reachable from the python interpreter. Both functions are utilized for observing the combine dump of build-in-function. These created 		functions in python are truly helpful for the efficient observation of the built-in system.
  
35)  whenever python exists , why isn't all the memory de-allocated ?
  Ans : When Python exit, the object referenced from global namespaces of Python modules are not always deallocated. So, Python doesn't recognize and free circular memory references before using the 		garbage collector.
  
36)  what is the dictionary in python ?
  Ans : Dictionaries are Python's implementation of a data structure that is more generally known as an associative array. A dictionary consists of a collection of key-value pairs. Each key-value 		 pair maps the key to its associated value.
  
37)  How can the ternary operator used in python ?
  Ans : The ternary operator in python is used to return a value based on the result of a binary condition. ... It takes binary value(condition) as an input, so it looks similar to an “if-else” 	  condition block. However, it also returns a value so behaving similar to a function.
  
38)  what does this mean: *args , **kwargs ? and why would we use it ?
  Ans : The special syntax *args in function definitions in python is used to pass a variable number of arguments to a function. It is used to pass a non-key worded, variable-length argument list.
        **kwargs passes variable number of keyword arguments dictionary to function on which operation of a dictionary can be performed. 
        *args and **kwargs make the function flexible.
        
39) what does len() do ?
  Ans : The function will return the length of a given text string.
  
40)  Explain spilt() , sub() methods of "re"module in python ?
  Ans :  sub() – finds all substrings where the regex pattern matches and then replace them with a different string
	 split() – uses a regex pattern to “split” a given string into a list.
	 
41)  what are negative indexes and why are they used ?
  Ans : The negative index is used to remove any new-line spaces from the string and allow the string to except the last character that is given as S[:-1]. The negative index is also used to show 		the index to represent the string in correct order.
  
42)  what are python packages ?
  Ans :  A python package is a collection of modules. Modules that are related to each other are mainly put in the same package. When a module from an external package is required in a program, that 		 package can be imported and its modules can be put to use. Any Python file, whose name is the module's name property without the .
  
43)  How can files be deleted in python ?
  Ans :     Open a Python File window. You see an editor in which you can type the example code.
    	    Type the following code into the window — pressing Enter after each line: import os os. remove("ChangedFile. csv") print("File Removed!") ...
   	    Choose Run→Run Module. The application displays the File Removed! message.
   	    
44) What are the built-in types of python ?
  Ans : Python uses five numeric types: Booleans, integers, long integers, floating-point numbers, and complex numbers. Except for Booleans, all numeric objects are signed. All numeric types are 		immutable. Booleans are represented by two values: True and False.
  
45) What advantage do numpy arrays offer over (nested) python list ?
  Ans :  Python's lists are efficient general-purpose containers. They support (fairly) efficient insertion, deletion, appending, and concatenation, and Python's list comprehensions make them easy 		 to construct and manipulate.
  
46) How to add values to a python array ?
   Ans : If using List as an array, you can use its append(), insert(), and extend() functions. You can read more about it at Python add to List.
    	 If using array module, you can use the concatenation using the + operator, append(), insert(), and extend() functions to add elements to the array.
    	 If using NumPy arrays, use the append() and insert() function
    	 
47) How to remove values to a python array ?
   Ans :  Use list. pop() to remove an element from a list by index. ...
    	  Use the del keyword to remove an element from a list by index. Place the del keyword before the name of a list followed by the index of the element to remove in square brackets. ...
    	  Use list. remove() to remove an element from a list by value. ...
    	  Use np.
    	  
48) Does python have OOps concept ?
  Ans :  Python is an object-oriented language since its beginning. ... In Python, we can easily create and use classes and objects. An object-oriented paradigm is to design the program using 	 classes and objects.
  
49) what is the difference between deep and shallow copy ?
  Ans : A shallow copy constructs a new compound object and then (to the extent possible) inserts references into it to the objects found in the original. A deep copy constructs a new compound 	object and then, recursively, inserts copies into it of the objects found in the original.
  
50) How is multithreading achieved in python ?
  Ans : Multithreading in Python can be achieved by importing the threading module. Now that you have threading module installed, let us move ahead and do Multithreading in Python
  
51) what is the process of compilation and linking in python ?
  Ans : Compilation: The source code in python is saved as a . py file which is then compiled into a format known as byte code, byte code is then converted to machine code. This process is known as 		linking. 
  
 52) What are python libraries ? name a few of them.
   Ans : A Python library is a reusable chunk of code that you may want to include in your programs/ projects. Compared to languages like C++ or C, a Python libraries do not pertain to any specific 		context in Python. Here, a 'library' loosely describes a collection of core modules.
             TensorFlow.
    	Scikit-Learn.
    	Numpy.
    	Keras.
    	PyTorch.
    	LightGBM.
    	Eli5.
     	SciPy.
     	
53) what is spilt used for ?
   Ans : The split() method is used to split a string into an array of substrings, and returns the new array. Tip: If an empty string ("") is used as the separator, the string is split between each 		 character. Note: The split() method does not change the original string.
   
54)  How to import modules in python ?
   Ans :  import module_name. When import is used, it searches for the module initially in the local scope by calling __import__() function. ...
    	  import module_name.member_name. ...
    	  sfrom module_name import *
    	  
OOPS Python interview questions :-



Q55. Explain Inheritance in Python with an example. ANS: Inheritance: Inheritance provides code reusability to the program because we can use an existing class to create a new class instead of creating it from scratch. In inheritance, the child class acquires the properties and can access all the data members and functions defined in the parent class. A child class can also provide its specific implementation to the functions of the parent class. In this section of the tutorial, we will discuss inheritance in detail.

    Single inheritance: When a child class inherits from only one parent class, it is called single inheritance. Example: class Animal: def speak(self): print("Animal Speaking")

     	    class Dog(Animal): 
     		def bark(self): 
         			print("dog barking") 
     	    d = Dog() 
     	    d.bark() 
     	    d.speak() 

    Multiple inheritance: When a child class inherits from multiple parent classes, it is called multiple inheritance. Python supports multiple inheritance. We specify all parent classes as a comma-separated list in the bracket. Example: class Animal: def speak(self): print("Animal speaking") class wild: def fun(self): print("Wild Animal") class pet: def fun2(self): print("pet animal") class dog(Animal,wild,pet): def fun3(self): print("dog is pet animal") c=dog() c.speak() c.fun() c.fun2() c.fun3()

    Multilevel inheritance: When we have a child and grandchild relationship. Example: class Animal:
    def speak(self): print("Animal Speaking")

     class Dog(Animal): 
     		def bark(self): 
     		print("dog barking") 

     class DogChild(Dog):  
     		def eat(self): 
     		print("Eating bread...") 
     d = DogChild()  
     d.bark()  
     d.speak()  
     d.eat() 

Hierarchical inheritance More than one derived classes are created from a single base. Example: class Parent: def functionl(self): print("this is first function 1")

 class Childl(Parent): 
 	def function2(self): 
 			print("this is second function 2") 

 class Child2(Parent): 
 	def function3(self):
 			print("this is third function 3")

 x = Childl()
 xl = Child2() 
 x.functionl() 
 x.function2()

    Hybrid inheritance: Hybrid inheritance is a combination of multiple inheritance and multilevel inheritance.

Q56. How are classes created in Python? ANS: Using def keyword we creat a class in python.

Q57. What is monkey patching in Python? ANS: the term monkey patch only refers to dynamic modifications of a class or module at runtime, which means monkey patch is a piece of Python code that extends or modifies other code at runtime

Q58. Does python support multiple inheritance? ANS: Yes,Python support multiple inheritance.

Q59. What is Polymorphism in Python? ANS: A child class inherits all the methods from the parent class. However, in some situations, the method inherited from the parent class doesn’t quite fit into the child class. In such cases, you will have to re-implement method in the child class.

Q60. Define encapsulation in Python? ANS: It is used to restrict access to methods and variables. In encapsulation, code and data are wrapped together within a single unit from being modified by accident.

Q61. How do you do data abstraction in Python? ANS: Abstraction is used to hide the internal functionality of the function from the users. The users only interact with the basic implementation of the function, but inner working is hidden.

Q62.Does python make use of access specifiers? ANS: The access modifiers in Python are used to modify the default scope of variables. There are three types of access modifiers in Python: public, private, and protected.

Q64. What does an object() do? ANS: The object() function returns an empty object. You cannot add new properties or methods to this object. This object is the base for all classes, it holds the built-in properties and methods which are default for all classes.

Programming Questions :

Q65. Write a program in Python to execute the Bubble sort algorithm. ANS: def bubble_sort(list1): # Outer loop for traverse the entire list
for i in range(0,len(list1)-1):
for j in range(len(list1)-1):
if(list1[j]>list1[j+1]):
temp = list1[j]
list1[j] = list1[j+1]
list1[j+1] = temp
return list1
list1 = [5, 3, 8, 6, 7, 2] print("The unsorted list is: ", list1) print("The sorted list is: ", bubble_sort(list1))

Q66. Write a program in Python to produce Star triangle. ANS: n = int(input("Enter the number of rows"))

for i in range(0, n): 
    
        for j in range(0, i + 1):  

            print("* ", end="")       
  
        print()  

Q67. Write a program to produce Fibonacci series in Python. ANS:

val=int(input("Enter the number"))
first=0
second=1
i=0

while i<val:
		if i<=1 :
    		j=i
		else :
    		j=first+second
    		first=second
    		second=j
		print(j)
		i=i+1

Q68. Write a program in Python to check if a number is prime. ANS: def prime(num): if num>1: for i in range(2,num): if num%i==0: print("no is not prime") print("no is prime") prime(3)

Q69. Write a program in Python to check if a sequence is a Palindrome. ANS:

def pali(str):
    str1=""
	    for i in str:
    	str1=i+str1
    	print(f"string is in reverse {str1}")
	    if str==str1:
    		print("String is palindrome")
	    else:
    		print("String is not palindrome")
str=input("Enter the string  ")
pali(str)

Q70. Write a one-liner that will count the number of capital letters in a file. Your code should work even if the file is too big to fit in memory. ANS:

Q71. Write a sorting algorithm for a numerical dataset in Python. ANS:

Q72. Looking at the below code, write down the final values of A0, A1, …An. A0 = dict(zip(('a','b','c','d','e'),(1,2,3,4,5))) A1 = range(10)A2 = sorted([i for i in A1 if i in A0]) A3 = sorted([A0[s] for s in A0]) A4 = [i for i in A1 if i in A3] A5 = {i:ii for i in A1} A6 = [[i,ii] for i in A1] print(A0,A1,A2,A3,A4,A5,A6)

ANS: {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3, 'd': 4, 'e': 5} range(0, 10) [] [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] {0: 0, 1: 1, 2: 4, 3: 9, 4: 16, 5: 25, 6: 36, 7: 49, 8: 64, 9: 81} [[0, 0], [1, 1], [2, 4], [3, 9], [4, 16], [5, 25], [6, 36], [7, 49], [8, 64], [9, 81]]

Python Libraries – Python Interview Questions

Q73. Explain what Flask is and its benefits? ANS: Flask is a web framework. Flask allows you to build a web application by providing tools, libraries, and technologies.

Benefits=	
	1)Integrated support for unit testing
	2)Built-in development server and fast debugger
	3)Restful request dispatching
	4)Unicode base
	5)Support for cookies

Q74. Is Django better than Flask? ANS:It is depends on you django is a full feature web freamwork and hance it required decison made by you or your team you can move probably faster that way.However if your not satisfied with the one of the choices thats django mades for you or you have the unique application requirmentes then an this case you may have look at the flask as well.both the freamwork have lower the bariyar.

Q75. Mention the differences between Django, Pyramid and Flask. ANS: Django: Flask:Flask is a "microframework" primarily aimed at small applications with simpler requirements.

Q76. Discuss Django architecture. ANS: mvc is django architecture model,view,control

Q77. Explain how you can set up the Database in Django. ANS: Django uses SQLite by default; it is easy for Django users as such it won’t require any other type of installation. In the case your database choice is different that you have to the following keys in the DATABASE ‘default’ item to match your database connection settings

 Engines: you can change database by using ‘django.db.backends.sqlite3’ , ‘django.db.backeneds.mysql’, ‘django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2’, 		     ‘django.db.backends.oracle’ and so on
 Name: The name of your database. In the case if you are using SQLite as your database, in that case database will be a file on your computer, Name 	   should be a full absolute path, including file name of that file.

Q78. Give an example how you can write a VIEW in Django? ANS: import datetime # Create your views here. from django.http import HttpResponse def index(request): now = datetime.datetime.now() html = "
Now time is %s.
" % now return HttpResponse(html) # rendering the template in HttpResponse

Q79. Mention what the Django templates consist of. ANS: A template consists of static parts of the desired HTML output as well as some special syntax describing how dynamic content will be inserted.

Q80. Explain the use of session in Django framework? ANS: A session is a mechanism to store information on the server side during the interaction with the web application.

Q81. List out the inheritance styles in Django. ANS: Abstract Base Class Inheritance Multi Table Model Inheritance Proxy Model Inheritance
